With more than 30,000 years of history, India is the birthplace of numerous cultures and religions
making it one of the most important tourist destinations in the world. Being ruled over various
dynasties and kingdoms before being established as a republic in the 20th century, India has more
than thousand tourist attractions and several World Heritage Sites. Listed below are some of the
most extravagant places you can visit in India.

1. The Red Fort, Delhi

 

Established as Shahjahanabad in 1648, The Red Fort was known as the capital of the Mughal
Empire in India. Its construction is attributed to Shah Jahan who also built the famous Taj Mahal in
Agra, and was also known by the name Quila Mubarak and remained the residence of the Mughal
Imperial family for nearly 20 decades.

2. The Taj Mahal, Agra

 

The name Taj Mahal, translates to the ‘Crown Palace’ and is one of the most famous and
marvelous buildings in India. Located in the city of Agra, Taj Mahal is actually a mausoleum built
to house the remains of Mumtaz Mahal, the wife of Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan. The building is
known for its extensive use of white marble and was completed in the mid-17th century.
3. Pangong Lake, Ladakh

   

With its location between India and Tibet, Pangong Lake is an enchanting saltwater lake located in
the Himalayas in Ladakh. The lake can be reached via a 4-5 hours’ drive from Leh via the scenic

Changla Pass. Pangong Tso is known for its hypnotizing blue waters and flocks of migratory birds
that can be seen here.

4. Valley of Flowers, Nainital

 

As evident by its name, the Valley of Flowers is known for its vast diversity of alpine flowering
shrubs located in the western Himalayas. The place is a part of the larger Nanda Devi Biosphere
Reserve in Nainital, Uttarakhand. The valley is covered with snow from October till March, but as
the summer arrives, the valley is turned into a palette of colorful flowers that covers the entire
landscape.
5. Jaisalmer Fort, Jaisalmer

   

Located amidst the golden sands of the Thar Desert, the Jaisalmer Fort was built by the Bhati
Rajput King Rawal Jaisal. It remained an important trade center during the medieval era before the
popularity of maritime trade centers such as Bombay and Calcutta. Today, it is one of the important
tourist centers in Rajasthan known for its exquisite Rajput Architecture and scenic beauty.

6. Ruins of Hampi, Karnataka

 

Hampi was the capital of the erstwhile Vijayanagar Empire and known to be one of the richest
cities of its time. Located on the shores of the Tungabhadra River in Karnataka, Hampi is also a
UNESCO World Heritage Site famous for its stone carved structures, built in marvelous Dravidian
style architecture, temples and monuments.
7. Ghats at Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh

 

Also known by the names Kashi and Benares, Varanasi is said to have been continuously inhibited
since the 11th century BC and is known to be the spiritual capital of India. The city is also known
for its Ghats located on the banks of the Ganges River and were mostly built during the 18th
century. Today, the Ghats are known to attract a large number of devotees and tourists who visit
Varanasi to Pradeep Kumbhashi seek spiritual salvation.

8. Backwaters, Kerala

 

The Backwaters of Kerala are essentially a group of 5 lagoons that are linked by natural and
manmade canals. These waterways were mainly used for trade during the older times and are
known for their scenic beauty and a rich variety of flora, fauna, avi-fauna and marine life.
9. Old Goa, Goa

 

Located in the Northern Goa district of Goa, Old Goa refers to the historic town that served as the
seat of the Portuguese in India till the 18th century. The city is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site
due to its unique Baroque style architecture and various churches.

10. Umaid Bhavan Palace, Jodhpur

 

A marvelous example of the Indo-European architecture, the Umaid Bhavan was built during the
1920’s and is known as one of the largest private residences in the world. The palace was criticized
for its expensive architecture but also helped the citizens of Jodhpur to sustain their living during a
3 year famine. It was commissioned by the 37th Rathore King Umaid Singh.
11. Jama Masjid, Delhi

 

Known formally as ‘Masjid-i-Jahan-Numa’, the Jama Masjid was built by the Mughal Emperor
Shah Jahan in the mid-17th century. The mosque is built in a majestic Indo-Islamic style mainly in
Red Sandstone and marble. Jama Masjid has three gateways, 2 minarets and four towers that
provide it with an imposing look.

12. Akshardham Temple, Delhi

 

Inaugurated in 2005, the Akshardham temple in Delhi is known as one of the major Hindu
temples in India. The structure of the temple is made from sculpted sandstone and took almost 7000
artisans to complete. The entire complex is decorated with sculpted pillars, sculptures depicting
deities, sadhus and animals along with scenes from the Hindu mythology.
13. Old Bombay, Mumbai

 

 

Before it was ceded to the British, the port city of Mumbai was a group of 7 islands, which were
comnected into a single landmass through land reclamation around the late 18th century. Since then
the city was developed as a major port town in India after the construction the Suez Canal. The old
town is known for its historic architecture and various tourist attractions in Mumbai.

14, Ajanta and Ellora Caves, Aurangabad

   

Ajanta and Ellora Caves in Aurangabad are rock cut Buddhist caves that date back as far as the
2nd century BC to 800 AD. The Ajanta Caves mainly consist of rock cut monuments dedicated to
the ancient Buddhist traditions, while Ellora cave contain Hindu, Buddhist and Jain monuments
built during the Rashtrakuta Empire.
15. The Golden Temple, Amritsar

 

Known by its formal name Harmandir Sahib, The Golden Temple is one of the most revered places
of worship for the Sikh community in India. Located in the pilgrim town of Amritsar in the State of
Punjab, Harmandir Sahib is known for its gilded facade and the exquisite architecture that is one of
a kind among all other religious places in India.

16. Charminar, Hyderabad

 

The Charminar or 4 Minarets is a historical monument that was built by the Qutub Shahi Dynasty
during the late 16th century. Muhammad Quli Qutub Shah who was the ruler of Golkonda built the
monument to commemorate the founding of the city of Hyderabad an important trade route. The
structure is known for the signature 4 minarets, which are built in a marvelous Indo-Islamic style.
The second floor of the structure also houses a mosque, which is also a remarkable work of
medieval architecture.
17. Amber Fort, Jaipur

 

The medieval town of Amer was the former capital of the Kachwaha Rajputs, with the fort serving
as their seat till the 18th century. The Amber fort is not only one of the most majestic monuments
in India but its scenic location and preservation makes it a major tourist attraction in Jaipur.

18. Rashtrapati Bhavan, Delhi

 

 

Known during the British Raj as the Viceroy’s House, Rashtrapati Bhavan is known as the seat
and residence of the President of India. The structure is built in a vast area that encompasses 320
acres of land, in a marvelous style that incorporates styles from Indian and European architecture.
19. Mahabodhi Temple, Bodh Gaya

   

The Mahabodhi Temple is one of the major pilgrim site for the Buddhists as it the place where
Lord Buddha received enlightenment. The temple is located at a distance of 96 kilometers from
Patna and is also the sight of the Bodhi Tree, the exact spot where Siddhartha Gautama meditated in
around 589 BC.

20. Meenakshi Amman Temple, Madurai

 

Dedicated to the Hindu deities Parvati and Lord Shiva, Meenakshi Amman Temple in Madurai is a
typical Dravidian style temple, with a prominent Gopuram that reaches almost 50 meters high. The

current structure was built during the 17th century, although the temple has existed since ancient
times.
21. Khajuraho Temples, Chattarpur

 

Located at around 175 kilometers from Jhansi, the Khajuraho Group of Temples is a UNESCO
World Heritage Site built around the 1st century AD by the Chandela Rajputs. The construction of
the temples is a remarkable example of the Hindu Nagara style architecture and is also famous for
its sculptures depicting various deities, animals, mythical creatures and erotica.

22. Elephanta Caves, Mumbai

   

The Elephanta Caves are located on the Elephanta Island, at a short distance of 11 kilometers from
the Apollo pier in Mumbai. A UNESCO World Heritage Site, the Caves are famous for their ancient
rock cut temples dedicated to the Hindu and Buddhist traditions.
23. City Palace, Udaipur

 

After leaving Chittor due to its strategic disadvantage, the Sisodiya Rajputs established their new
kingdom as the city of Udaipur and made it the capital of Mewar. The construction of the City
Palace was started in 1559 by Maharana Udai Singh and was improved by his successors for the
next 300 years. The palace is one of the most visited monuments in India and is known for its
opulent Hindu Rajput Architecture.

24. Havelock Island, Andamans

 

Havelock islands are located in the Andamans at a short distance of 57 kilometers from Port Blair.
The island is one of the largest in the Andamans and is known for its exquisite beaches and white
sands. The shoreline is strikingly different from most other beaches found in India and is one of the
few must visit exotic locations in the country.
25. Tirupati, Chittoor

    

 

 

Dedicated to Lord Venkateshwara, a form of the Hindu deity Lord Vishnu, Tirupati is regarded as
the richest Hindu temple in the world and is known for its remarkable Dravidian architecture. The
temple is also located atop the Tirumala hill at an elevation of 853 meters above sea level.

26. Tawang Monastery, ‘'Tawang

 

Known as the largest monastery in India, Tawang Monastery was founded in the 17th century,
under the orders from the 5th Dalai Lama of the Tibetan Buddhist sect. The building is located at an
elevation of 3000 meters above sea level and is known for its scenic views and remarkable
architecture.
27. Kaziranga National Park, Assam

 

The Kaziranga National Park is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and is known to be one of the
last few strongholds of the one-homed rhinoceros. It is spread around an area of 430 sq. kilometers
and is known for its varied terrain and vegetation that houses a large number of wildlife species.

28. Kesaria Stupa, Kesaria

 

Located in Bihar, Kesaria Stupa is one the largest Buddist stupas in the world. It was built around
the 2nd and 7th century AD and stands more than 300 feet in height. The stupa was also known to
be visited by Lord Buddha and is also mentioned in the writings of Chinese traveller Heiun Tsang
that signifies its historical importance.
29. Palitana Temples, Bhavnagar

   

The Jain temples of Palitana are located in the Bhavnagar district of Gujarat and are known for its
marvelous rock sculpted exteriors. The group of temples is known to be one of the most holy
pilgrimage sites for the Jain community and is located at an elevation of 603 meters, accessible
through climbing around 4000 steps.

30. City Palace, Jaipur

 

The city of Jaipur was established as the new capital of the Kachwaha Rajputs and the City palace
is located in the heart of the walled city. Constructed during the 18th century, the palace is a
remarkable example of Rajput architecture and combines traditional Hindu architecture with

European elements. The building houses a museum and a portion is still used by the erstwhile royal
family as their residence.
31. Sun Temple, Konark

Sun temple of Konark was built during the 13th century by the kings of the Eastern Ganga
Dynasty. Known for its remarkable architecture and antiquity, the temple is built by carving large
boulders of rock and resembles a large stone chariot. It is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site and
is believed to be the exact spot where Lord Krishna’s son Sambha meditated to cure his leprosy.

32. Rani Ki Vav, Patan

   

Constructed by the king of the Solanki Dynasty in Gujarat, Rani Ki Vav in Patan, is a stone step-
well that is known for its intricate carvings and architecture. The construction of the place dates
back to the 11th century AD and is one of the largest step-wells in India.
33. Chaturbhuj Temple, Orchha

 

The temple is dedicated to Lord Vishnu and was constructed by the Bundela Rajputs of Madhya
Pradesh around the 16th century AD. Chaturbhuj temple of Orchha is known for its remarkable
architecture with tall spires, which give them an imposing look. The interiors and exteriors have
also been extensively adorned with stone carvings depicting flowers, petals and geometric patterns.

34. Cellular Jail, Port Blair

 

The Cellular Jail or Kala Pani is a historic Jail that was used to incarcerate political prisoners
during the British Rule in India. The construction of the prison complex dates back to the late 19th
century as a response to the revolt of 1857. The jail was also designed keeping in mind that the
prisoners weren’t allowed to communicate amongst themselves.

35)Borra Caves, Vishakhapatnam

The Borra Caves in Vishakhapatnam are arguably the deepest cave in India that goes to a depth of
80 meters. The caves are covered with stalagmites and stalactites due to the limestone content in the
walls. The caves are also a revered Hindu pilgrimage spot due to the presence of several stalagmite
lingams, the representation of Lord Shiva.

36. The Ridge, Shimla

 

If you are on your visit to the enchanting city of Shimla, then you must visit “The Ridge’. The place
is a large open area, located in the centre of Shimla and is the heart of all its commercial and tourist
activities and connects several places of interest in Shimla.

37. Tso Moriri Lake, Ladakh

    

The Tso Moriri is another enchanting glacial lake, located in the high mountain escapades of
Ladakh at a height of 4522 meters above sea level. The lake is accessible from Leh and can be
reached easily from the Pangong Tso. The place is known for its pristine blue waters and views of
the surrounding Himalayas.

38. Mysore Palace, Mysore

 

The Mysore palace was built between 1897 and 1912, by the Wodeyar Kings of Mysore and is
known for its remarkable architectural design, receiving more than 6 million visitors each year. The
design of the palace beautifully combines elements from Hindu, Mughal and Gothic architecture
decorated with ornamental designs.

39. Bangalore Palace and Grounds, Bangalore


 

One of the few buildings in India to be built in Tudor Style, the Bangalore Palace was constructed
by the Maharaja of Mysore during the early 20th century and is one of the must visit places in
Bangalore. The palace was initially started as the residence for the principal of the Central High
School, but the site was later bought by the Maharaja. The grounds of the palace are known for
hosting various cultural events and appearances by music icons such as Deep Purple, Rolling
Stones, Metallica, Aerosmith, Mark Knopfler, Roger Waters and Elton John etc.

40. Gwalior Fort, Gwalior

 

Although the fort has seen a large number of various dynasties and empires, it was said to have
been constructed by Suraj Sen Kachwaha during the 5th century. Gwalior fort in Gwalior
comprises of two main palaces and several temples that are dedicated to Hindu, Buddhist and Jain
traditions.

41. Bhimbetka Rock Shelters, Raisen

 
A UNESCO World Heritage Site, the Bhimbetka Rock Shelters are known to be one of the oldest
archeological sites in the world. Believed to have been used since the time of Homo erectus, the

caves contain an extant number of ancient cave drawings that date back to more than 30,000 years
old.

42. Victoria Terminus (Chattrapati Shivaji Terminus), Mumbai

 

 

One of the finest examples of Indo-Gothic Revival architecture, Victoria Terminus or Chattrapati
Shivaji Terminus is one of the busiest railway stations in India. The construction was completed in
1888 and the design of the building is attributed to Fredrick William Stevens. The station has
become an icon of the city of Mumbai and is one of its most recognizable landmarks.

43. Jagannath Temple, Puri

 

The site of the temple has been used for worship since the ancient times, but the existing structure
was built by the Kings of the Eastern Ganga Dynasty during the 12th century AD. Jagannath
Temple in Puri is known as a major Hindu pilgrimage site and is also a part of the Char Dham
pilgrimage in Hindu traditions.

44. Lingaraja Temple Complex, Khurda

 

Dedicated to Lord Shiva, the Lingaraja Temple is one of the largest Hindu temples in

Bhubaneswar and was built during the 11th century. The temple is also one of the few remaining
specimens of the Kalinga style architecture and was built by the rulers of the Ganga dynasty.

45. Udayagiri Caves, Bhopal

 

 

The Udayagiri Caves are known to be some of the oldest Hindu structures in India and were said to
have been constructed by the Gupta Empire around the 5th century AD. The caves are one of the
most visited tourist destinations in Bhopal. They are known for their rock cut depictions of various
Hindu deities and their incarnations.

46. Qila Mubarak, Bhatinda

 Known to have been built by the Kushan Emperor Kanishka during the 1st century AD, The Quila
Mubarak is one of the oldest forts in India. The fort is notable for being the final resting place of
Razia Sultan, the first female monarch of Delhi who was incarcerated here.

47. Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar

 
One of the major sites of the Indian struggle for Independence, the Jallianwala Bagh is a
monument of National importance. It was here that the British officials opened fire on a rather

peaceful Indian crowd including women and children. The garden is spread across an area of 6.5
acres and still contains several bullet marks left by the British.

48. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalay, Mumbai


The building was initially built as the residence to the Prince of Wales who visited India in 1904.
After his departure, the building was turned into a museum to promote the arts and crafts of India.
Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalay is one of the largest museums in India and is
known for its extant collection of artifacts and archeological findings that provide a view of the
country’s history.

49. Lake Palace, Udaipur

 

Marketed as one of the most romantic luxury hotels in India, Lake Palace was constructed by
Maharana Jagat Singh II of Mewar in the mid-18th century. The palace derives its name from its
remarkable location, right in the middle of the enchanting Lake Pichola. The monument can only be
reached via a speed boat that operates from a nearby jetty.

50. Ghats and Old City of Pushkar, Pushkar

The holy town of Pushkar is one of the most revered places by the Hindus and is often called as
the ‘King of pilgrimage sites’. The lake is said to have been created by the blessings of Lord
Brahma and the surrounding city is one of the oldest in India. The city of Pushkar is also known for
its Brahma temple, one of the few sites in the world dedicated to the Hindu god of creation.

51. Ranakpur Jain Temple, Ranakpur

One of the finest examples of the Maru-Gurjara Architecture, The Ranakpur Jain Temple is
located in Pali district of Rajasthan. The temple was constructed in 1437, under the patronage of the
Maharana of Mewar. The temple is constructed entirely in white marble and adorned with elaborate
carvings.

52. Bada Imambara, Lucknow

Constructed in the late 18th century, Bada Imambara in Lucknow is one of the largest Shia
monuments in India. The construction of the congregation hall was commissioned by the Nawab of
Awadh, and reflects a striking Mughal inspired architecture. The monument is also famous for its
maze like labyrinth called ‘Bhulbhulaiya’ that contains 489 identical doorways.

53. Fatehpur Sikri, Agra

  
 

Fatehpur Sikri is a historic town located near Agra in the state of Uttar Pradesh. It was built by the
famous Mughal Emperor Akbar as the capital of his empire. The city was abandoned later due to
water shortage and fear of invasion by the nearby Rajput states. Nevertheless, the site is one of the
best specimens of the Mughal Architecture, which crosses several styles from Indian and Persian
styles.

54. Humayun’s Tomb, Delhi

Famous as the architectural precursor to the Taj Mahal, Humayun’s tomb was built in 1572 by the
Mughal Empress Beda Begum. The construction of the monument was overseen by Akbar and is
one of the first garden mausoleums in India. The design of the tomb incorporates various styles
from the Persian, Turkic and Rajput architecture with exquisite work of stone carving and lattice
work.

55. The Great Stupa, Sanchi

 

One of the few surviving examples of the Mauryan era buildings, The Great Stupa is located in
Sanchi, Madhya Pradesh. Being built over the relics of Lord Buddha, it was also a major pilgrimage
site for the Buddhists. It was built during the 3rd century BC by the Mauryan emperor Ashoka and
was later expanded by the Shunga and the Satavahana empires that followed.

56. Jantar Mantar Observatory, Jaipur

 
Home to the world’s largest stone sundial, Jantar Mantar in Jaipur is one of the 5 astronomical
observatories in India, built by Sawai Jai Singh II of Jaipur. The observatory complex is located in
the center of the walled city, close to the City Palace and Hawa Mahal.

57. The Great Living Chola Temples, Thanjavur

   
   

Built during the 11th and the 12th centuries, the Living Temples at Thanjavur are a UNESCO
World Heritage Site in Tamil Nadu. The construction of the temples is attributed to the Chola
Dynasty who ruled southern India from 200-1246 AD. The temples are dedicated to the Hindu deity
Shiva and are remarkable examples of Dravidian architecture.

58. Mahabalipuram, Kanchipuram

Mahabalipuram is an ancient port city that houses several monuments and buildings from the
Pallava Era. The group of monuments is also classified under the UNESCO World Heritage Site and
contains various temples, rock-cut sculptures, megaliths and cave temples that date between Ist and
9th century AD.

59. Agra Fort, Uttar Pradesh
 

The red fort of Agra (not to be confused with Red Fort of Delhi), was built by the Mughal emperor
Shah Jahan after his ascension to the Mughal throne. An older fortified building called the
Badalgarh was located at this site and came under the reign of several northern Indian empires such
as the Delhi Sultanate, Afghans, Maratha and the Mughals. Agra fort was also the final resting
place of Shah Jahan when he was imprisoned by his son Aurangzeb.

60. Cave Temples, Badami

 

Located in Badami, Karnataka — The cave temples were built during the 6th and the 8th centuries
by the Badami Chalukyas. There are 5 cave temples in total, with 3 dedicated to the Hindu holy
trinity Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva and the 4th cave is dedicated to Jain traditions. The caves are also
a part of UNESCO World Heritage Sites and are a major tourist attraction in Karnataka.

61. Nalanda University, Bihar Sharif



 

Known to be an ancient Buddhist learning center between the Sth and 12th centuries, Nalanda is
one of the Archeological gems of India. The site has been linked with Gautama Buddha, Mahavira
and Ashoka and flourished as a center of learning under the Gupta Empire. Unfortunately, the site
was desecrated by the Turkic chieftain Bakhtiyar Khilji in the 12th century AD.

62. Junagarh Fort, Bikaner

 

Unlike the other forts in Rajasthan, which are usually built atop a hill, the Junagarh fort is located
in heart of the old city of Bikaner. The fort was first built during the reign of Rao Bika who founded
the city of Bikaner in the 15th century. It was later refurbished during the British Raj and displays a
remarkable Rajput architecture.

63. Cooch Behar Palace, Cooch Behar

 

Modeled after the Buckingham Palace of London, the Cooch Behar Palace is located in Cooch
Behar, West Bengal. The construction was commissioned by the Maharaja of Cooch Behar in 1887.
Despite of being an Indian palace, the building is known for its elaborate renaissance style
architecture.

64. Nizamat Imambara, Murshidabad

 

 

 

The largest Shia congregation hall in India, Nizamat Imambara was built by the Nawab of Bengal
during 1847 in Murshidabad. The building was constructed atop an older Imambara, which was
destroyed by a fire in 1846. The building’s design speaks of a fine cross between Islamic and
European styles.

65. Belur Math, Belur

   
Marvelously combining artistic elements from Hindu, Islamic and European traditions, Belur Math
is also the headquarters of the Ramakrishna Mission. It was founded by Swami Vivekananda and is
one of the most important institutions for spiritual learning.

66. St. Paul’s Cathedral, Kolkata

The Angelical St. Paul’s Cathedral was built in 1847 and displays a remarkable Gothic Revival
architectural design. The building suffered massive damage during an earthquake in 1934 and was
rebuilt with a new design. The church’s construction is attributed to the British rule in Calcutta and
is perhaps one of the few buildings with Indo-Gothic Architecture.
67. Akbar’s Tomb, Agra

 

Known to be the final resting place of the Great Mughal emperor Akbar was constructed during
1605 and was completed in 1613. The construction was started by Akbar himself and was finished
by his son Jahangir who succeeded him as the Mughal Emperor. The design is very much similar to
the Buland Darwaza, which is the main entrance of Fatehpur Sikri.

68. Chota Imambara, Lucknow

 

Also known as, Hussainabad Imambara, the Chota Imambara was built by the Nawab of Awadh
and is located in Lucknow. Located in close proximity to the larger Bara Imambara, the Chota
Imambara is also referred to as the Palace of Lights due to its gilded dome and enchanting
decorations during Muharram.
69. Sundarbans National Park, South 24 Parganas

 

With an area of approximately 1,330 sq kilometers, the Sundarbans National Park is one of the
major habitats of the Bengal Tiger and a large number of wildlife and plant species. The terrain at
Sundarbans mostly comprises of deltas and river channels covered with mangrove forests. The
forests of Sundarbans are also known for a teeming population of saltwater crocodiles.

70. Makkah Masjid, Hyderabad

 

One of the oldest mosques in Hyderabad and India, the Makkah Masjid is also one of the largest
Islamic centers of worship in India. The bricks of the mosque are said to have been built with the
soil brought by the rulers of Qutub Shahi Dynasty. The construction was completed in 1694 and is
built in a highly ornamental Indo-Islamic style.
71. Ramanathaswamy Temple, Rameswaram

   
 

Dedicated to the Hindu deity Shiva, the Ramanathaswamy Temple also houses one of the 12
Jyotirlingas in India. The temple is believed to mark the site where Lord Rama prayed to Lord
Shiva following his victory against Ravan, the demon king of Lanka. The temple is also famous in
Rameswaram for its long corridors with more than 1200 pillars.

72. Basilica of Our Lady of Good Health, Velankanni

The Roman Catholic Basillica is located in Velankanni, Tamil Nadu and is also nicknamed the
‘Lourdes of the East’. Several reports of supposed miracles have been attributed to this place,
especially during the 16th century making it a major pilgrimage center for the Christians in India.
The church is built with a remarkable gothic architecture, which was only added during the 20th
century.
73. Marina Beach, Chennai

 

One of the longest beaches in the world, the Marina Beach is a major tourist attraction in

Chennai and sees thousands of visitors on a daily basis. The beach was developed only after the
construction of the Madras Harbor in 1881, when the British Governor of Madras commissioned the
construction of a promenade near the shoreline.

74, Gagron Fort, Jhalawar

 

Bounded on three sides by Rivers, the Gagron Fort is also a UNESCO World Heritage site and is
located in Jhalawar district, Rajasthan. The fort was constructed by the chieftains of the Doda
Rajput clan in the 8th century but was conquered numerous times by various monarchs until it was
granted as a gift to the Maharaja of Kota by Aurangzeb.
75. Sariska Tiger Reserve, Alwar

 

Located near the foot hills of the Aravalli Range, The Sariska Tiger Reserve is famous for its
population of the Bengal Tiger and other wildlife species. It is also home to the Sariska Palace,
which was used as a hunting lodge by the Maharaja of Alwar. The forested area also contains other
attractions such as Pandupol temple and the Kankwadi Fort.

76. Gateway of India, Mumbai

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Monument was built during the British Raj in India to mark the visit of King George V and
Queen Mary in 1911. The design of the building crosses elements from the Hindu and Mughal
Architecture with European elements. The 26 meters tall gateway is located at the tip of the Apollo
Jetty and is one of the prominent buildings to be seen while entering India by Sea.
77. Kumbhalgarh Fort, Rajsamand

 

Bound by the second largest wall after the Great wall in China, the Kumbhalgarh Fort is a
UNESCO World Heritage Site built during the 15th century. The fortified complex was established
by Rana Kumbha the Chieftain of the Sisodiya Rajputs who ruled Mewar. The fortress contains
more than 300 temples, surrounded by 36 kilometer long wall that are around 15 feet in width and is
often nicknamed as ‘The Great Wall of India’.

78. Ranthambore National Park, Sawai Madhopur

    

Known for its teeming population of highly camera friendly Tigers, the Ranthambore National
Park is situated in the Sawai Madhopur district of Rajasthan. It is surrounded by the Chambal and
the Banas rivers and contains the historic fort of Ranthambore built during the 10th century. The
forests were used for game hunting by the royal families of Jaipur before they were declared a
protected area after the Indian independence in 1947.
79. Mehrangarh Fort, Jodhpur

 

Built in 1459 as the new capital of Marwar, The Mehrangarh Fort is located atop a hill, right
above the historic city of Jodhpur. The fortress is one of the few, which never fell to the invading
armies and is exemplary of the imperial might of the Rathore Rajputs. The thick walls of the fort
also contain several palatial structures that contain a plethora of artifacts, weapons, armor and
paintings.

80. Munnar Hills, Idukki

 

The green hills of Munnar are located in the Idukki district of Kerala amidst the Western Ghats
Mountains. Placed at an elevation of approximately 1,600 meters above sea level, Munnar is a
major hill station in Kerala. The hill town is known for its sprawling green hills, covered with tea
and spice plantations.
81. Loktak Lake, Moirang

   
 

Loktak Lake is situated near the town of Moirang in Manipur and is the largest freshwater lake in North-
Eastern India. The lake is known for its several floating islands including the largest, which is home
to the Keibul Lamjao National Park. The nature reserve is not only known for its scenic locations,
but also houses several wildlife and plant species.

82. Kodaikanal Lake, Kodaikanal

 

The lake is located in the heart of the scenic hill town of Kodaikanal and serves as a major tourist
attraction in Kodaikanal. The construction of the lake is attributed to the former collector of
Madurai Sir Vere Henry Levinge, who commissioned the construction in 1863. The lake’s precincts
contain a ferry and boat service, a boat club and regular flower shows and exhibitions are conducted
here.
83. Nainital Lake, Nainital

 

Nainital Lake is located in the Nainital District of Uttarakhand and serves as the major tourist
attraction in the hill town. One can engage in a number of activities such as boating, Yachting and
various exhibitions and festivals that are organized near the banks of the Nainital Lake.

84. Jaigarh Fort, Jaipur

 

Housing the world’s largest cannon on wheels, the Jaigarh Fort was built in 1726, by Sawai Jai
Singh II of Jaipur. The construction of the fort was done in order to protect the Amber fort from the
invading army and is located 400 meters above the Amber palace. The fortress also served as a
cannon foundry for the Rajputs and Mughals and also houses a beautiful garden and a museum.
85. Jim Corbett National Park, Nainital

 

Jim Corbett National Park is the oldest protected regions in India and is a major stronghold of the
Bengal Tiger. Located in Nainital, Uttarakhand the Jim Corbett National Park was established in
1936 and is openly funded by the World Wildlife Fund and is famous for its vast species of flora
and fauna.

86. Dharamshala, Kangra

 

Located in Kangra district, Himachal Pradesh, Dharamshala is the seat of the Dalai Lama and also
the headquarters of the Tibetan Government in exile. A majority of the population here belongs to
the Tibetan exiles and hence is also known as mini Tibet. The town contains several monasteries,
scenic views of the Himalayas and various other tourist attractions.
87. Laxmi Vilas Palace, Vadodara

 

Built by the Gaekwads in 1890, the Laxmi Vilas Palace of Vadodara is one of the largest private
residences in the world. Its construction was commission by Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad II who
was a Maratha chieftain and the King of Baroda state. The building’s design is the true
amalgamation of Hindu and European architecture and contains a museum, gardens, assembly halls
and a zoo that has been reduced to a crocodile pit.

88. Gir National Park, Junagarh

 
The Gir National Park is famous for its thriving population of the Asiatic Lions and is major
protected wildlife reserve in the State of Gujarat. The forests were once the hunting reserves of the
royal family of Junagarh who later played a pivotal role in the conservation of lions in the region.
Apart from the Lions, the forests of Gir are also home to a varied species of animals, birds and
reptiles.

89. Marine National Park, Gulf of Kutch

Known as the first National Marine Park in India, the Marine National Park is located in the Gulf
of Kutch near Jamnagar in Gujarat. Spread across more than 150 sq kilometers, the Marine National
Park is known for its abundant coral reefs that surround the 42 islands that form the protected area.
Apart from the corals, one can also witness several other marine species in the crystal clear waters.

90. Tughlaqabad Fort, Delhi

   

Located in the national capital city of Delhi, the Tughlaqabad Fort was built in 1321, by Ghiyas-
ud-din Tughlaq who founded the Tughlaq dynasty. The construction of the fort was intended to keep
the marauding Mongolian raiders at bay and was known as the 3rd historic kingdom of Delhi. The
fort is also connected to the tomb of Ghiyas ud-din Tughlaq, which sits at a scenic location beside a
highly ornamental causeway.
91. Pattadakal, Bagalkot

 

Known as the capital of the Chalukya Dynasty, the group of monuments at Pattadakal is also a
UNESCO World Heritage Site. Despite of being built by the south Indian kingdoms, the
architectural styles displayed here crosses various styles such as Nagara, Dravidian, Rekha and
Prasada in their designs. The temples were mostly built during the 6th and the 8th centuries
providing them with a vast historic value.

 

Initially a small region under the Gupta Empire, the town of Bishnupur flourished during the reign
of the Malla Kings in the 18th century. The most famous example of their patronage is the several
terracotta temples that are located here. The temples were built by the Malla kings who employed
various local artisans and craftsmen to build a series of temples dedicated to the various Hindu
deities.
93. Monuments at Mandu, Dhar

 

Mandu or Mandavgarh is located in the Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh. It was said to have been
established in the 6th century BC and later came under the reign of the Parmara Kings. The city was
fortified by Raja Bhoj in the 10th century but was later captured by the Delhi Sultanate and the
Mughals. The monuments contain several Jain temples, mosques and royal palaces that provide a
great view of the varied cultural influences in India.

94. Shalimar Bagh, Jammu and Kashmir

 

The Shalimar Bagh is the largest of all terraced gardens built by the Mughals in India and is
located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir. The garden is located near the picturesque Dal Lake and
was built by the Mughal Emperor Jahangir during the 17th century. Nevertheless, the design of the
gardens was expanded and improved by the following rulers and is now a major tourist attraction in
Srinagar.
95. Lotus Temple, Delhi

 

The only Baha’i place of worship in India, the Lotus temple is an exquisite work of architecture
built in 1986. The design of the building resembles a budding lotus flower and is thus called as the
Lotus Temple. The monument is located in the Fahapur suburb of Delhi and attracts millions of
visitors each year.

96. Kakatiya Temple, Warangal

 

The monument is also referred to as the ‘Thousand Pillar Temple’ built by the Kakatiya Dynasty in
the 12th century AD. The temple complex in Warangal houses several lingams, 3 shrines dedicated
to the Hindu deities Surya, Shiva and Vishnu and is surrounded by a picturesque garden. Although it
was desecrated by the Tughlaqs, it was restored by the efforts of the state government.
97. Silent Valley National Park, Palakkad


Mentioned in the Indian epic Mahabharata, the forests of Palakkad are now preserved as the Silent
Valley National Park in the state of Kerala. Located in the Western Ghats, the forests are also a
part of the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve and are famous for its vast collection of flora and fauna.

98. Srirangapatna, Mandya

   

Located near the city of Mysore, Karnataka, Srirangapatna is home to the ancient
Ranganathaswamy Temple, making it a major pilgrimage site for the Hindus. The building of the
temple is attributed to the Ganga Dynasty but was later improved and expanded by the kings of the
Hoysala and Vijaynagar empires. The city is also home to the Shivansamudra waterfalls, which are
the 2nd largest in India.

99. Purana Qila, Delhi

 

 

Purana Quila is the supposed site of Indraprastha, an ancient city built by the Pandavas. The site
came under the control of the Mughal conqueror Humayun but was seized by Sher Shah Suri, who
built and extended the fortifications to its present state and was known as the 6th historic kingdom
of Delhi.

100. Chittorgarh Fort, Chittaur

Chittorgarh is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and also has the largest fort in India. It was built by
the rulers of the Mauryan dynasty and was later ruled by the Rajputs of Mewar for nearly 800 years
who expanded it to its current state. The fort was later abandoned for the new city of Udaipur and
was only refurbished during the British Raj in India.

These above attractions are not only some of the best places you can visit in India, but also
provide a deep insight in Indian history and cultures. Make sure you visit atleast a few from this list,
while on your trip to the mystical land.
